Final Project Proposal
================
Yingxi Ji, Yeqing Ji, Wurongyan Zhang, Yiling Yang, Yanni Wang
11/6/2019

#### 1\. Anticipated title:

Prevalence trend and Determinants of Mental Illness in Tech Company

#### 2\. Team members:

Yingxi Ji (yj2579), Yeqing Ji (yj2580), Wurongyan Zhang (wz2507), Yiling
Yang (yy3018), Yanni Wang (yw3439)

#### 3\. Motivation:

Mental illnesses are common in the United States. According to the
National Institute of Mental Health, in 2017, about one in five U.S.
adults live with mental illness. As future technicians, we are wondering
the prevalence and determinants of mental illness in the tech companies,
which has barely been extensively studied.

#### 4\. Anticipated dataset:

The anticipated dataset is OSMI Mental Health Survey in Tech Survey,
which can be found at <https://osmihelp.org/research>. This survey is an
annual survey regarding mental health of people in tech companies
conducted by Open Source Mental Illness (OSMI), a non-profit
organization. We will employ the most recent 3 years’ data
(i.e. 2016-2018).

#### 5\. Research interests:

  - Examining the changes in prevalence of mental illness in recent 3
    years / across regions / gender / age / complications between mental
    illness?
  - Does your employer provide resources to learn more about mental
    health issues and how to seek help reflects the society’s attitude
    towards mental illness?
  - Building classification model to predict mental illness status.

#### 6\. Data plan:

Planned analyses begin with data cleaning and EDA. This step includes
visualization, possibly interactive, by using graphs such as bar graphs,
correlation matrix and heat map. Proportional hypothesis test and
logistic regression are followed. An interactive map might be
considered. To build the classification model, decision tree
classification tree diagram and random forest are proposed. Expected
coding challenges are mostly during the cleaning process since there are
many categorical data with NA values or free response questions, which
cannot be handled by simple factorization. The intended outputs include:
(1) An analysis report, (2) A web page containing report and
classification model, and (3) A video demonstration of webpage and
report.

##### Planned analyses:

EDA, proportional hypothesis test, logistic regression, decision tree,
random forest

##### Visualizations:

Using plot.ly to draw Bar graph, heat map, correlation matrix, region
map, classification tree

##### Coding challenges:

Cleaning data will be challenges since the data is categorical outcomes.
Some of the data were entered by participants themselves so the data
include the problem of misclassification.

#### 7\. The planned timeline:

  - Nov. 11: Data cleaning

  - Nov. 15: Get the EDA part done

  - Nov. 25: Finish interested questions

  - Dec. 1: roughly done

  - Dec. 4: finish webpage
